# #26 `can`, `could` and `be able to`

## `can do`

- `can` shows it is any possibility (論理的可能性がある).
- `Something can do` == `"something do" is possible`.

> We can see the lake from our hotel.

Seeing the lake from our hotel **is possible** to us.

> I can smell gas.

"I smell gas" is possible => ガスの匂いがする.

## `can't do`

- The negative of `can do`.
- `can't` shows it isn’t any possibility (論理的可能性がない).

> I’m afraid I can’t come to the party of Friday.

"I can’t come to the party" means "I come to the party" **is impossible**.

## `be able to do` = `can do`

If we use `can` with other modal verbs together, we have to use `be able to do` instead.

> I haven’t been able to sleep recently.

We can’t say as `I haven't can sleep...`.

> I can’t sleep.

We use `can` as more usual.

## `could do` - the past of `can do`

> My grandfather could speak five languages.

My grandfather can speak five languages in the past.

> I was sitting at the back of the theater and couldn’t hear very well.

I can’t hear very well in the time(past).

## Difference between `could do`, `was able to do` and `managed to`

`could do` is used to mean general ability.

> Jack was an excellent tennis player when he was younger. He could beet anybody.

He had the general ability "can beet anybody".

`was able to` /  `was managed to` is used to mean something in specific situation.

> Jack and Andy played a match yesterday. Andy played well, but Jack managed to beat him.

He could beat him "in the time".

## New words

### plenty of

- large amount

### persuade

- 説得するニュアンス
