# #27 `could do` and `could have done`

`could` is not only used for past of `can`. `could` have few ways to use.

## `could do` - for suggestion

> A: What shall we do tonight?
> B: We could go to the cinema.

We use `could do` for suggestion with same mean as `can do`. It is less sure than `can do`.

## `could do` - for unrealistic

> I’m so tired, I could sleep for a week.

A people normally can’t sleep for a week. It is not realistic.

## `could do` - for possible now or in future

> The story could be true, but I don’t think it is.

It is possible that story is true. But it isn’t sure.

## `could have done`  - the past of `could do`

> I was so tried, I could have slept for a week.

`I could have slept` is past of `I could sleep`. 文章が過去形になることで、「かもしれない」のようなニュアンスになる。

`Something could have happened` = `it was possible but did not happen`.

## `couldn't do`  - the negative `could do`

> Everything is fine right now. Things couldn’t be better.

`Things couldn't be` is negative of `I could be` (possible).

> I couldn’t live in a big city. I’d hate it.

`I couldn't live` is negative of `I could live` (possible).

`would not be possible`

## `couldn't have done` - the past of `couldn't do`

> We had a really good holiday. It couldn’t have been better.

`It couldn’t have been` is past and negative of `It could be` (possible).

> The trip was cancelled last week. Paul couldn’t have gone anyway because he was ill.

`Paul couldn't gone` is past and negative of `Paul could go` (possible). 

## New words

### hang <something> (verb)

- pictureなどに使う。pictureを壁にかけるニュアンス。

### keen <somebody> (adjective)

- 熱心な、みたいなニュアンス

### silly <something> (adjective)

- lack of thought, understanding or judgement
