# #28 `must` and `can't`

## `must do` - to believe something is certain

You can use `must` to say that **you believe something is certain**.

> You’ve been traveling all day. You must be tried.

`You must be tried` = `I believe you are tried`.

> "Joe is a hard worker." "Joe? You must be joking." "He doesn’t do anything."

`You must be joking` = `I believe you are joking`.

> I’m sure Sally gave me her address. I must have it somewhere.

I believe I have her address. I’m sure it.

## `can't do` - to believe something isn’t possible

> You’ve just had lunch. You can’t be hungry already.

Normally people are not hungry just after eating a meal. I believe you aren’t hungry.

> They haven’t lived here for very long. They can’t know many people.

I believe they don’t know many people. Because they haven’t lived here for very long.

## `must have done` - the past of `must do`

> "We used to live very near the motorway." "Did you? It must have been noisy."

They lived somewhere that very near the motorway. I believe it was noisy at the time.

> "I’ve lost one of my gloves." "You must have dropped it somewhere."

I believe you’d dropped it.

## `can't have done` - the past of `can't do`

> Sarah hasn’t contacted me. She can’t have got my message.

I believe "she got my message" is impossible.

> Tom walked into a wall. He can’t have been looking where he was going.

I believe he wasn’t looking where he was going. I believe "he was looking where he was going" is impossible.

## `couldn't have done` for instead of `can't have done`

This’s also OK. These are same mean.

## New words

### certain (adjective)

たしかな、確実な

### believe <something | somebody> (verb)

- to feel certain that something is true
- to feel certain that somebody telling you the truth

### pleased (adjective)

- feeling happy about something

### short of money (idiom)

- don’t have money so much
- no money

### opposite (adjective)

- 反対側

### neighbours

- people in the next door
- people in the next house

### following

- to come or go behind somebody
