# #29 `may` and `might` 1

## `may do` and `might do`

- `may be true` means that **"perhaps it is true"**.
- Both of `may` and `might` are can use in the present.
- `might` is less sure than `may`.

> 'Where’s Ben?’ 'He may be hi	s office.'

Perhaps Ben is in his office. But it’s not sure.

> 'Where’s Ben?' 'Ask Ann. She might know.'

Perhaps Ann knows where is Ben. But it’s not sure.

## `may not do`, `maight not do` and `mightn't do`

- The negative of `may do` and `might do`.
- `may not do` and `might not do` is usual than `mightn't do`.

> She might not work here any more.

Perhaps she doesn’t work here. But it’s not sure. Also she might work here.

## `may have done` and `might have done`

- The past of `may do` and `might do`.

> A: Why wasn’t Amy at the meeting yesterday?
> B: She might not have known about it.

Yesterday, Amy wasn’t at the meeting. Perhaps she might not know about it.

## `could` and `may/might`

- `could` is used to show possibility (論理的可能性).
- `might` is used to mean probability (蓋然性).

See also: [「可能性」と「蓋然性」の意味の違いは何ですか。 - これね、よくある質問で… - Yahoo!知恵袋](https://detail.chiebukuro.yahoo.co.jp/qa/question_detail/q12100442507)

## Difference between `couldn't` and `mightn't`

### `couldn't`

- `couldn't` shows "no any possibility" (論理的可能性がない).

> Sarah couldn’t have got my message. Otherwise she would have replied.

It means that **Sarah could have got my message is impossible.**
=> I’m sure that Sarah hadn’t got my message.

### `mightn't`

- `mightn't` shows "no some probability" (蓋然性があるとは言い切れない).

> I wonder why Sarah hasn’t replied my message. I suppose she might not have got it.

It means that **"(Sarah had got my message) might not be true".**

## New words

### otherwise

### suppose

